every single moment is an opportunity
for us to check ourselves before we
wreck ourselves if i'm miserable if i'm
upset if i'm angry if i'm cranky it is
my responsibility because it's what i'm
doing up here that's making me have that
reaction and if i'm the problem i am
also the solution
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
our goal with this show and company is
to introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams all right today's guest is
an eight-figure entrepreneur recognized
by inc magazine for building one of the
fastest growing companies in america
she's also one of the biggest names in
personal development with a socially
conscious global empire that reaches
millions of people across
195 countries a multi-passionate
entrepreneur indeed she's also an
international best-selling author whose
work has been translated into 16
languages and her award-winning show
marietv has established her as one of
the most credible and impactful content
creators on the planet she's interviewed
or been interviewed by a litany of the
brightest minds alive including tony
robbins sir richard branson oprah
winfrey ariana huffington and a mountain
of others simultaneously through her
widely lauded educational platform
b-school she is both disrupting
education and helping to develop tens of
thousands of the next wave of
mission-driven entrepreneurs with over
30 000 graduates to date and countless
successful businesses launched it's
clear that the curriculum she and her
team have developed is highly desirable
and undeniably effective
she is raw vulnerable wise hilarious and
one of the few people i've ever
encountered who can simultaneously
disarm people and inspire them to
greatness so please help me in welcoming
the woman oprah winfrey referred to as
the thought leader for the next
generation the avid philanthropist and
former mtv hip-hop choreographer marie
forleo wow
that's really me that is really it
that's funny i'm so excited to have you
back i'm thrilled to be here man the
last time that we got to spend together
was so much fun partly because you
really
are just you at all times and what i
love is that you talk about how much
control we have over
being ourselves how we feel what our
state is yeah talk to me about that
so
i think what's important to do is go
back when i first started as a business
person i was 23 years old
and i was so insecure
in my mind starting a life coaching
business as a 23 year old like the
logical part of my mind was like who the
hell is going to hire a 23 year old life
coach this is the dumbest silliest
stupidest thing you've ever tried in
your life and i had been on wall street
i had worked in the magazine industry i
had done all these things and basically
hit all these different walls
and when i was trying to figure out how
to be an entrepreneur at 23 and this is
like the late 90s early 2000s this is at
the very beginning of all things digital
i felt like i didn't fit in you know i
was trying to live into this idea of who
i thought a businesswoman would be with
like big shoulder pads and you know a
corner office and tried to write an
online newsletter at that time that was
like uber professional and it was
lifeless
i wasn't getting anywhere because i
wasn't being me
and i'm just a girl from new jersey who
was brought up in a very um you know
kind of normal middle class way no one
in my family ever went to college my
parents my mom especially you know she
curses like a sailor so i had this very
unique upbringing and i was trying to
fit myself into this idea of who i
thought i should be and it wasn't
working so it wasn't until i actually
allowed myself to just be the weird
wacky energetic kind of a little bit
crazy person that i am that things
actually started to work and so
now it's been almost 20 years of doing
this and i've seen it time and time
again where people tend to feel stuck
and stifled where they tend to feel like
their life force is just drained out of
them there's gets to be despair and
depression they just feel stuck is when
they're not expressing the fullness of
who they really are they're trying to
fit themselves into a conventional box
they're trying to live up to other
people's expectations they're trying to
be someone who they really aren't
because they're afraid that the real
them is going to get rejected
wow so
knowing that that's the depth that
drives people into that place which i
think you're right is ultimately a very
dark place how did you give yourself
permission to to really let go and be
that quirky person even in the face of
the potential rejection yeah so uh it
wasn't an easy road and i didn't get
there overnight um so i was raised
catholic even though i'm not
particularly religious now i consider
myself more spiritual but i went to
seton hall university and i actually
used to work for the church so when i
was about 23 i was still in this mode of
whenever i'd hit a crisis i'd ask god
for some guidance and the way i did it
in those days when i was right in my
journal and so i remember writing in my
journal at those at that time and just
saying like why can't i figure this out
like i so believe in my coaching
business and i also had all of these
other ideas of things i wanted to do
like hip-hop dance fitness writing i was
so enthralled with marketing and
business
but traditional wisdom was all about
focusing in it was all about choosing
one thing dominating a niche and every
time i tried to follow that traditional
advice i felt like i was cutting off a
limb
and so
in that plea in my journal and writing
what's wrong with me what's wrong with
me why can't i fit in why can't i follow
all the traditional ideas of what it
means to be successful
i got to a point where i just said [__]
it i can't do this i can't i was failing
i was miserable and i said if i'm not
going to be able to fit into this
traditional notion of success why don't
i throw out the whole notion together
and just do what i really want to do at
that point i was about 25 and i said to
myself you know you've always wanted to
dance you've never taken a dance class
in your life the only experience that i
had was like moonwalking across my mom's
kitchen linoleum floor to thriller with
like my white socks on when i was like
seven years old and i always loved dance
but i'd never had any experience or
training and so at that point i was
living in a tiny studio apartment in new
york city and i said you know i should
just go take a dance class like wow what
a novel idea but tom i have to tell you
i tortured myself
about that idea for years like i thought
about it i fantasized about it but i
never gave myself permission to do it
because it didn't fit in
to being a successful life coach or
being a successful person on wall street
or being a successful person in the
magazines i had such narrow ideas of who
i could be
and so when i threw out everything and
just said i'm just going to do this my
own way
i took my very first dance class at
broadway dance center
i had the dorkiest outfit on i remember
standing outside class and you know the
class before was finishing up and my jaw
just hit the ground because everyone in
there was so talented they were so good
i was so
like intimidated and i felt this panic
come over me cut to me going into the
class
hiding in the back
getting down on the floor to start the
warm-up and the music came on about
seven seconds in i started sobbing
uncontrollably i had no idea what was
wrong what was going on i was so
thankful that the music was so loud and
i had long hair that i could cover my
face
and once i finally kind of started
moving i realized my body was saying yes
this is who you are this is part of who
you're meant to be
and so
you ask the question like how did i get
there it was because i tried so hard
doing everything everyone else told me i
should do
and when that didn't work i just had to
go off and bust out on my own and it was
through that experimentation and moving
my body and tapping into the wisdom of
this vessel that everything started to
move
it's so interesting the the
getting to the point where you can
really own who you are and what you want
is already fascinating enough but you've
really codified a lot of this in terms
of how you think about our ability to
control our state and things like that
did you have that awareness then were
you sort of beginning to grapple with
that
you know i think it's interesting
because
in college i took a class
from a woman who taught with deepak
chopra
and the class was all about the seven
spiritual laws of success and that was
my first introduction to meditation it
was my first introduction to the world
of personal development in kind of a
major way and so i started gaining clues
kind of at around 17 or so of this whole
new world but it wasn't until i went
through my coach training which was like
a three-year experience and then going
through the world of dance and fitness
that everything kind of started to weave
together and then i just understood too
from an experiential level how much
wisdom we have in our bodies you know at
the same time culturally we were
starting to spend more and more time on
our computers and then devices started
to come into play cell phones and i just
watched as how so many people started
living from the neck up and started
losing touch with their intuition that
inner voice the very innate wisdom that
each of us are born with they just
didn't know how to access it so for me
in terms of tapping into your body in
terms of movement and incorporating all
of these different modalities into
how you figure out your life um it's
become second nature to me but i think
now more than ever it's so important
that we reconnect to this thing so we
can hear our truth
all right we got to talk about that
because you just did an episode of q a
which your q a's are amazing thank you
now for real like the way that and i
think it was the most recent when you
did you walked this woman through she
wanted to either be an astronaut or a
sociologist if i were all right yeah
anthropologists there we go and so she
wasn't sure if she was going to pursue a
doctorate or really make an attempt to
be an astronaut and the way that you
guided her through that largely through
how i want you to imagine the scenario
and tell me how you feel in your body
walk people through the reconnection
process because i think if if one people
should watch that episode
you like hit her from like all these
different scenarios and you could feel
her like changing and unlocking things
as she went which is really
extraordinary
but
walk people through how to reconnect
what is what does that process look like
yeah so
first of all it taps into slowing down
we're all moving so so so fast we want
the answer instantly we're always going
up here so i think step one is to slow
down and actually breathe and feel your
body you know if you're someone who
works out even you may not
be that practiced at doing this you know
if you go to the gym and you bang out
your reps or you're doing squats you're
hitting a class which just go go go go
you may not be actually feeling the
physiological signals that come through
your body so i always like to frame it
like this
a lot of people ask me what's the
difference between fear and intuition
like fear a fear that you should
actually move through it's an
opportunity for you to grow it's
something that you actually want to do
but you're just afraid of failing or
what if it's your intuition telling you
this is the wrong move it's hard to
decipher that sometimes so what i like
to do is i give people a very simple
test how to decipher the difference
between that fear and intuition here's
how it works
you have to slow down you can close your
eyes if you can and ask yourself in
terms of the opportunity you're thinking
about saying yes to
when you imagine yourself saying yes or
moving forward with this idea or this
person in your body in the nanosecond
you ask the question how do i feel about
this do you feel yourself
expand
or contract
this is a tiny tiny micro movement of
feeling within you expansion might feel
like lightness joy excitement fun all of
those feelings where you almost perceive
your body moving forward in space ever
so slightly contraction think about it
in terms of dread despair something in
you is saying no there's a heaviness a
pit in your stomach even if that
opportunity even if that idea or that
person that asked you something on paper
it sounds like you should say yes but
something in you is like pulling back
that's your no so it's a really great
way to help people train themselves to
tap into their inborn wisdom that's
already within them that's working to
guide them on their best path
you know what i found really interesting
about what you were doing with
the woman in the q a was that
it was as the audience it was pretty
obvious where she was leaning
emotionally and you simply pointing it
out like you feel
your voice lightens your energy changes
when you talk about being the astronaut
and one thing that i really resonated
with was you weren't trying to give her
an answer until you really understood
the problem yes and so that was really
interesting that you kept like this open
space for her to figure it out but then
you'd say okay will you sound different
when you talk about that and
and you had her do like this deathbed
like flashback thing which i i think
ties perfectly with what you just said
but there's another part i want to get
to which is you've said that exercise
you think is like a catch-all how can
people use exercise because you start in
the beginning saying like if you're even
if you're working out and you're just
going going going yeah you may not be
feeling it so how can i leverage
exercise as a way to really begin to
not need the outside voice that you were
so potently for that woman but wanting
to be able to you know discover this
stuff for myself so how do i
use exercise as yeah
i think a few things one it's find
modalities that you know work for you
where you have an opportunity to get so
into the movement and the process itself
that this thing recedes to the
background when i say this thing i mean
the thinking mind so for example for me
when i take a spin class a really good
spin class where i'm loving the music
and i can absolutely let go and charge
into my body i can like feel into every
single movement i can let the sweat pour
off of me i can get lost in the in the
rhythm i find that it opens up a channel
in me like nothing else sometimes it
could be taking a great walk i think i
want to push you a little bit on opens
the channel so i really understand it
yes is it where you feel like you can
hear the little voice in your mind is it
where you're ironically you can't try
and force it to show up so oftentimes
when i hit a roadblock in my business
and i'm just at this stalemate i'm like
oh i can go this way or this way i'm
stuck let me go work out let me go take
a walk let me take a spin class let me
take a dance class and get immersed in
that so that my subconscious and the
rest of my body has a chance to work
through it and it will produce
an answer or an insight when i'm not
looking for it it could happen at the
end of the class when i'm done in the
shower sometimes it happens on the bike
it doesn't matter but what you just have
to do is have a level of faith and trust
and you can't go in forcing it does that
make sense yeah definitely so i know you
meditate quite a bit daily um
is it a similar
moment of opening or is that completely
different for you for me in my own
experience it's very different i feel
like what happens through exercise and
again it's when you have that level of
faith to surrender to your body to
surrender that you have wisdom within
you that you're not going to access
grinding to it
it
unfurls almost like a flower blooms when
it's ready
that's super interesting and and um
by
way of just being really who i am so you
talk powerfully about feminine and
masculine energy i have a really hard
time because i think by nature i tend
towards the feminine i have a really
hard time like when you use a metaphor
like that my brain immediately
translates it into something tough and
cool yes um but that's
probably not helpful talk to me a little
bit about that duality um you've talked
about how we all hold those both inside
of us how can we because that may be
exactly the moment to lean into that
yeah
and the more you can help me understand
it as a process of of being able to
consciously move from one energy to the
other that would be extraordinary so
consciously moving from masculine to
feminine for any of us people access
those different modalities within us in
different ways for me one of the most
effective ways is actually breathing
into your heart now i think when we're
in our masculine we want to stay
connected to our heart when we're in our
feminine we want to stay connected to
our heart for me when i get in masculine
driving mode i can
unhinge from my heart more easily i can
get really focused really driven i can
feel my stress level go up i can almost
tune everything else out and just hit it
really hard do you know what i'm talking
about oh yes
when i'm in my feminine and i allow
things to be and i stay really connected
to my heart and my emotional self and i
feel this sense of joy and the sense of
trust around me
i find
that i don't know if this is helpful to
you that helps me kind of dance in
between both of those and it helps me
detect which mode that i'm in so let me
make sure that i'm
hearing your question right do you want
to tap into your feminine essence more
or your masculine essence which is the
one that you find it difficult to see
where you're at i think that what the
truth for me is getting to the point
where um one i can do it consciously so
that i'm recognized because uh an
insight to me when you were describing
the masculine
as like a shutting down
and i understand that um that that isn't
necessarily good it sounded awesome to
me and it was like such a sexy
description i was like yeah that's what
i want to do i want to like you were
doing tune everything i was like [__]
yeah
which we all need to do sometimes it's
required but god so for me it's like is
it
as i
have like doing that has led me to
extraordinary success yes and so
but from that i'm also hyper conscious
like i'm constantly asking myself the
death bed question now the irony is i've
um part of my what i talk about a lot is
wanting to live forever and so i think
people think that i don't recognize that
i have i'm just awash in mortality right
now so i do play that out and i think
about that a lot yes and i can feel
sometimes that it would be a mistake to
make that the only mode that i live in
but because i had to find a way to to
toughen up that was my
job as a new entrepreneur that was the
thing that i lacked i did not know how
to be tough and so i had ambition but no
drive and so my journey has been one of
getting hard now my wife will tell you
hey great job you made it you've gotten
too hard so now my thing is to refine my
playfulness which is certainly the right
word yes and so letting go of some of
the judgments i have about the the sort
of earlier way that i came to things
which i'll say was more feminine in
nature yeah so if i'm hearing you
correctly is there a judgment in you
that
feminine energy and this is again no
judgment on my part but that feminine
energy
is potentially weak yes yes okay first
of all that is a notion that many of us
have myself included until fairly
recently
culturally speaking we've mostly been
taught that the feminine is weak right
that's why so many women
man up to run a business
for me for years and years and years it
produced incredible results but you know
what at a tremendous cost
where i felt myself and my creativity
starting to just drain down where i felt
myself getting more and more stressed
less and less joyful where i found
myself feeling more and more tired and
asking the questions why because i know
my core essence so
that is one of probably the biggest
mistaken notions that we have culturally
is that the feminine is weak and it is
not
it is one of the most beautiful powerful
forces within all of us and i think and
i'll speak particularly to the women who
are watching right now one of the most
profound things that you can do over the
course of your life especially if you
struggle with being in your feminine is
to understand that it will
unlock your most powerful
beautiful creative life that you can
imagine which includes your ability to
kick major ass in business and it
includes your ability to heal others
all right i want to go deep on that's
the most interesting thing that i came
across between the first time i
researched you and this time was you
were talking openly about um there was
i i don't want to use the wrong word but
a declining um sex drive perfect
no we have to go right there um because
and that's kind of what i was alluding
to before
as a woman who's built this incredible
business which i am so proud of right
and building it from scratch like so
many of the people in our audience have
and they're working really hard in their
careers even if they're not
entrepreneurs they're
busting their buns every single day
they're raising kids they're taking care
of a million things especially women
right
and at the end of the day you're like
where what happened i used to have this
like incredibly powerful libido i used
to have all this desire and for me in my
experience in my relationship i don't
want to be with any other men that's not
what it was about but i was like gosh
where did it all go
and it really took many many years and
different
me experimenting with different
modalities and things to go what is
wrong with me and how can i figure this
out how can i get this back and it
wasn't until i really started to
understand on an experiential level the
power of my feminine that everything
started to come rushing back and you
know as a woman i think this is
important for people to hear because
there's a lot of messaging that well you
know once you're done with your 20s or
30s like it's all downhill and that's
[__]
it's total total [__] in my
experience it can keep getting better
and richer and sexier and hotter and
more exciting than ever before
we're getting a lot of claps today
big time yes but but i think the thing
that we fail to realize is that all of
this is integrated right so it's not
like the joyful playfulness that you
bring to your relationship doesn't
impact the joyful playfulness that you
bring to your business or your
creativity or vice versa that in the
middle of let's say a business [__] show
that if you can bring some levity or you
can bring your emotional self or you can
be vulnerable that you're not going to
spark a breakthrough amongst the team so
i think all of this really interplays
quite nicely and it's important that we
recognize that they do feed each other
i want to go back to your guys's
relationship and if i understand
correctly you're saying that as you
stopped at least in the relationship
stop being so predominantly in your
masculine energy
i was an [__] i'm just gonna say it
like once i really started to understand
how controlling i was
how directive i was
how many times that i just you know
cut off his ideas or thought that i knew
better and wasn't
setting us both up to win
man i made tons of mistakes now i can
look back and go oh my god what an idiot
i was but no one teaches us about this
stuff until it's too late and i honestly
think there's a lot of couples that
separate or get divorced because they've
just never had these tools or no one's
ever taught them about this yeah so this
is something lisa and i talk a lot about
we actually have a show now called
relationship theory where we dive into
this stuff and
we talk so my wife is very powerful
and to be clear on my side i don't think
women are weak and men are strong i just
think i had traditionally viewed in
myself the moments where it was
vulnerability and all that as as a
weaker oh yeah way to approach no and
just to be clear for everyone watching i
didn't hear that from you i just know
that traditionally speaking many many
women again myself included until fairly
recently have a mistaken notion
culturally that the feminine is weak
yeah 100
and talking about having like we have
roles in our relationship for sure which
i will say certainly from a sexual
energy perspective
she responds when i'm in a definitely a
more masculine energy and i respond when
she's in a more feminine energy which i
think is really really interesting i
mean i've seen tony talk about this
where you know people guys not being
willing to step into that masculine
energy and saying that
almost certainly your woman wants that
yes and so i'd love to hear a woman's
perspective on that it clearly has some
amazing insights in this like what does
that mean exactly how can a guy that's
listening now do that in a way because
like when you were describing the
masculine when you had masculine energy
they weren't traits that you're saying
you want him to adopt right to cut you
off to be short with you or be an
[__] like that's not what you're
saying yeah so how can a guy step into
their masculinity in a way that's
received
well where the woman feels awesome about
it well a couple of things that i'll say
a i'm so not an expert on this like i
will happily share from my experience
but i think that some of the best
teachers out there
tony robbins speaks into it i think
david dida is absolutely incredible with
a lot of his work
there's a lot more educated experience
better teachers on this than i am but
i'll say that there are three things
that i learned and actually i learned
this
from tony in terms of what
men can do
to support women staying in their
feminine
so
the first one is that women want to
feel seen
and noticed so when your woman feels
unseen
she's going to just
honestly not be that happy and so this
is about a man stepping into his
masculine right so noticing
not only how she looks but what she's
doing like god honey you've done so much
today i don't know how you keep all
these things running you're absolutely
amazing for amanda walk in and
acknowledge how many plates most women
spend how hard she's working all the
time notice a detail about you know what
god your skin looks beautiful your smile
is amazing i think about whatever x y or
z it could be the tiniest tiniest detail
where you really see her she'll come
alive you're noticing you're in your
masculine you're picking out a detail
that's something that men can do very
well but to verbalize that has her lean
into her feminine
so unseen is a thing that when men don't
see their women things go downhill
if we feel misunderstood
right like you didn't actually listen to
us you go in and just try and solve our
problem
shuts down the feminine we get really
angry and we're going to come back at
you hard
very very hard so when i hear snickering
around here i hear lots of laughs these
are the laughs of recognition people
it's so true absolutely and so um
to be a strong masculine presence and to
be there and to listen to have her feel
understood that's one way that you can
stay in your masculine and it'll pull
her into her feminine and then unsafe is
the third you when a woman feels unsafe
she's going to close down so
a lot of men sometimes express their
anger or their upset and a woman feels
unsafe and she will close and pull away
or she'll get masculine to try and get
herself to feel safe so if a woman feels
unsafe that's going to put her into her
masculine and if a man can help a woman
feel safe in every way
he's going to be in his masculine that's
extraordinary and i imagine that that
feeds into the kind of relationship that
i'm guessing you have which is high
functioning high communicating yeah
what are some tools that you guys use to
keep the communication open to be raw to
be real
how do you guys do that dance i think
part of it is each person in the
relationship has to take 100
responsibility for the state of the
relationship at all times so
if i'm walking in and i see josh and
something in me doesn't feel connected
or doesn't feel like our hearts
connected it's not his fault it's got to
be something that i'm doing so i need to
take 100 responsibility like wow was i
in my head did i disconnect from my
heart am i judging him am i trying to
control him so
that way the quality of the relationship
is always in my hands
it's not his fault it's on me and he
plays that same game
so in that way
if we're both playing that full out and
at that level where the health and the
connection in our relationship is each
100 percent our individual
responsibilities
it's worked like magic it's not perfect
but it really does work well i would say
the other tool that i would recommend
for everyone to check out have you ever
heard of getting the love you want no oh
my goodness you guys are in for such a
treat so
this amazing couple harvard hendricks he
wrote a book i think it was back in the
late 80s or early 90s called getting the
love you want it sold a bajillion copies
and getting the love you want teaches
you a few communication tools one of
them is about this thing called imago
dialogue and it is a relationship saver
i would say for anyone listening who is
interested in exploring this between
understanding more about masculine and
feminine energy and training that in
yourself and with your partner and
having the imago dialogue toolkit
between those two things i think you can
heal practically anything whoa
give us a quick thumbnail yeah so the
imago dialogue
is about listening to another without
judging them and having them feel really
really heard so the process goes like
this one person asks for an appointment
so i would say hey tom are you available
now for an appointment because i really
have to talk to you about something and
you would either say you know what marie
i totally am i have time or you'd say
you know what i can't talk right now
can we do it at six o'clock tonight
because i have all these other things to
focus on so that's step one you ask for
an appointment
then step two is one person is the
sender and the other person is the
receiver so let's say i had something to
say to you there was just a little thing
that maybe got me upset or you know
didn't feel so good but i didn't want to
unleash on you i just wanted to talk
about it so i would start talking i'd be
like tom you know
gosh when i came home and there were all
these dishes in the sink it made me feel
like you really didn't see
that
i had such a big day it was so hard on
me and it would have really been great
if you would have taken care of that
because you know how much it means to me
your job would then be to mirror what i
said to you and reflect it back in the
exact words so give it a try
when you when you came home or say it
exactly like no say like so marie let me
see if i got that okay so marie let me
see if i got that
um when you came home and you saw that
there were dishes in the sink it made
you feel like um i didn't see how much
you have to deal with um and
those were as close as i'll get yeah
exact words that was really good keep
going you're doing awesome um
then i'd be i'd be vamping i got the
vibe but not the exact words right so
you'd say okay i got that can you tell
it to me again okay i got that can you
tell it to me again so the piece that
you missed was that it would have really
been great for you to remember how
important it is for me to have a clean
kitchen and again we're riffing here
yeah way close to home riffing but yes
uh so
so let me see if i got that so let me
see if i got that the part that i missed
was how important it is to you to have a
clean kitchen yes you got that so then
you would say is there more is there
more and then either i would say yes or
no but that is there more statement is
like this magic statement because for
both people usually there's other things
that they want to say but we never ask
our partner so if you said is there more
and i had more like oh yeah and x y and
z and then you'd mirror it back to me
the next step is about empathizing it's
about saying okay so marie and i'm going
to play you for a moment
so if i heard you correctly it really
made you feel uncared for and like i
really didn't remember the request that
you like a clean kitchen and i didn't
really see how much you had to do today
did i get all that and really get into
the feeling and their perspective and
then i would say yeah you actually did
really get all that
and then the final step is you can
either
wrap it up and say i understand your
perspective and that really does make so
much sense so you're validating the
other person's point of view you may not
agree with it but you're validating who
they are as a human and having them feel
heard and you close up this dialogue and
i will tell you this has allowed josh
and i to back up out of some crazy [__]
shows so fast where you know it could
have been you guys know those explosive
arguments where then they last hours if
not days
you can use dialogue to handle things so
so quickly and i feel bad here because
i'm like teaching other people's
material but please go read the books or
take the workshops because they're
phenomenal wow yeah it's amazing and
definitely don't feel bad i think more
people will go check it out because they
at least now have an understanding yeah
um we did an entire show with them they
teach the dialogue on marietv and they
kind of show you and then please go get
the book because it's it's the best like
12 bucks you could ever spend wow it's
amazing um so speaking of being able to
back out of a [__] show yes you've
talked about having shit-tastic days yes
great word yes um we all have them
but you also talk about our ability to
control our state and that we can
actually
shift the way that we feel inside
without having to have any new external
stimulus just literally decide i'm going
to change the way that i feel
how do you do that because i think if
people can understand
not only the effectiveness of that but
actually the steps to take it could be a
game changer yeah i think it's really
simple for me i try and play this
practice of you know if i ever feel like
in any moment life is not going the way
that i think it should be going it's
because i'm resisting what is you know
if someone didn't turn in their work on
time and i'm just like you know getting
that way or something didn't come out
right or the delivery doesn't come or
the technology breaks again we can list
anything in that slot right it's me
arguing with reality i'm making myself
miserable in that moment because i'm
choosing to argue with what is that's
always a losing proposition
so the more awareness i can bring to
that and go like is this really how you
want to live your life in this moment
marie because every single moment as you
know sets you up for the next moment and
you string these moments together and
guess what you have your life until we
get to that incredible death bet we
never know when that's coming so every
single moment is an opportunity for us
to check ourselves before we wreck
ourselves and so i just try and play the
game if i'm miserable if i'm upset if
i'm angry if i'm cranky it is my
responsibility because it's based on
what i'm thinking or believing in that
moment it's not the outside world
causing me to feel this it's what i'm
doing up here that's making me have that
reaction and if i'm the problem i am
also the solution
so how do you in your own life begin to
unwind that so i i'm assuming you
literally walk yourself through that so
you realize okay i'm the problem i know
this yes um is it visualization is it
framing is it saying i'm going to take a
new perspective on this yeah it
literally is like lighten up girl
but you're fine like do you have a roof
over your head right now yes then things
are damn good is there some food in the
fridge you're probably luckier than
millions of people on the planet right
now is there running water in the
kitchen and in the bathroom yes again
you're better off than probably a
billion people or more so that little
reframe helps me and then in the moment
again it sounds so simple but i think
we're all searching for these really
complex things and we don't need them if
you can catch yourself arguing with
reality in the moment and realize that's
not a wise thing to do you can then back
yourself up and go okay
that didn't turn out right so what am i
going to do about it am i going to be
miserable in this moment and let this
ruin my night or am i going to send off
the email to say hey when's that work
going to come and let's readjust our
communication plan so this doesn't
happen again but the argument and the
irritation is not necessary to get a new
result
yeah energy is something that's
i find really interesting and i'm
picking up on something that you said in
that um oftentimes i find people can't
talk about in a way that uh does
anything but give me the hives but you
actually can so
just because it gets so detached yeah
from my real experience yes but
you
one way that you make it really concrete
which i think is super interesting and
gave me this real sense of how to
externalize what i'm doing internally to
actually change the neurochemistry that
i'm experiencing yes in order to be able
to convey something new which is you've
said hey you're about to write somebody
an email
and then you give people advice on like
what to visualize and all that um do you
know what i'm talking about i don't so
it sounds really good i'm like wow did i
come up with this this is great it's you
so now i get to teach you yeah please
teach me my own stuff so this sounds
awesome it it uh you said that hey
you're about to email somebody and
depending on what it is you may be in an
aggressive statement oh yes yes yes um
so the fact that your energy gets
embedded into your communications we all
know that right like you've received the
email that's curt and you can just
almost feel the punch in the face that
comes through you've gotten the text
where you're like they are definitely
pissed at me um i believe and i do this
a lot with email marketing especially in
our business every time i sit down to
write a new email i want the other
person who receives this email to the
best of my ability to feel the love and
the energy and the respect and the
excitement that i have not only for the
idea that i'm about to share but for the
impact it could have on their life i
want them to feel all of me you know if
i'm sitting there writing an email and
i'm like just feeling flaccid i mean
what's that copy gonna be like it's not
gonna be any good but if i'm there and
i'm like playful and i'm excited about
it so that excitement is conveyed and
when someone's looking through their
inbox and they see something from me
nine times out of ten
because i'm consistent they know if they
click open it's going to be a good time
right there's going to be love in that
email there's going to be an energy to
that email that's different and i mean
you've probably experienced this in your
own life in simple ways when someone
makes a request of you
they care to even put an emoji because
it's not just them try it's like that
was a genuine expression of their
excitement um i'm sure if your wife asks
super something and her energy is such
that there's love embedded in it you're
a hundred times more likely to want to
say yes right
yes so we all feel this stuff and i
think that if you can consciously begin
to practice it then you're going to
notice the impact and the results yeah i
love the way you talk about that because
there is so much like that we can
influence each other so much by the
state that we're in what we're thinking
about whether we're amped up like like
you said with newsletters specifically
and and maybe because it's such a
solitary experience like you're writing
it by yourself i always had to wait
until something like got its hooks in me
right that it made me feel some kind of
emotion because then i knew that i'd be
able to convey that yeah and what i love
about your through line from the you can
change states and then giving people
those you know examples of think about
them and fill yourself with a feeling
for them
and i often tell people this if they
come to me and they've got beef with
somebody maybe it's somebody here at
work maybe it's a loved one whatever i'm
always like before you go into the
exchange and i don't have better words
for this yeah but fill your
heart with love like you you have to you
have to actually feel it like you've got
to get yourself to that state because
then you're going to approach this and
the reason that i'm really beating this
drum is what i want people to understand
is you can do that like you can change
your neurochemical state and that's the
part that i want people to practice yeah
and i mean you know so let's take that
at two levels one is a really easy way
to change your neurochemical state and
your emotional state is put on some
freaking music and dance i don't know
anyone who doesn't put on a song that
they love and instantly they feel
differently instantly they get more
energized or they want to move and
everyone loves different types of music
but get a damn playlist that you know
when you hear any one of those songs you
shift so that's an easy tactic that
anyone can use but i think to speak more
to
your point about when you're pissed at
someone or you've got some beef with
someone
an important thing to remember is that
everyone is always doing the very best
they can
always
so whatever behavior has happened
whatever the situation is you have to
know that that person innocently was
doing the best that they could given who
they were in that moment what they were
believing and what they were thinking
you don't know if they were scared you
don't know if they have a ton of stress
going on you don't know if they have a
health scare you don't know a lot but
all you do know is that every single
person is doing the very best they can
in each moment so if you can bring that
level of understanding and compassion
and try and take on their point of view
it relaxes things because right you're
not trying to be an [__] sometimes
people think you're an [__] but
you're not trying to be you were doing
the best you could in that moment were
you perfect at it maybe not i'm
certainly not but i know i was doing the
best that i could
so i think that between the tactic of
changing your state with some music and
actually getting things moving and then
having a little bit of humility and
realizing that everyone really is doing
the very best they can
allows you to relax a little bit and not
go in
with so much hardness now because this
is what i love about you talk to me
about high standards because your team
is crushing it oh my god they're
ridiculous i don't even know i'm just
like y'all are just smarter than me i
should just sit down and stay in bed i'm
not letting you get away with that you
you are setting the tone you're
extraordinary one i love the humility
don't think that's loss of me but
the team is definitely built around they
resonated with you because they're like
you i'm willing to accept that but
clearly you're setting a tone what
you've achieved is
it borders on unimaginable especially
when you think about how early you got
in this how long you've been at it how
much you've transformed yourself i mean
it's really extraordinary oh thank you
so what i want to know is
the compassion is real it it leaks out
of you on camera off camera and
everything that you touch but the high
standards are real so how do you balance
that the like i'm really filling my
heart with love i really get that you're
doing the best you can
but also we have some high standards
that we have to live up to
so i think it's a dance one of the
things about my team in particular is we
do share a lot of dna so everyone does
have very high standards they want to be
the best they want to crush it they want
to come out with new things they want to
be innovative they want to always be at
that next level so i can only play with
people like that because they're the
only people that get my kind of little
weirdness and craziness so that's number
one number two is we're also realists
and we've been in this game long enough
to realize you're not going to hit a
home run every single time i always like
to call it the snl effect like i love
snl i think it's a great show i've
always watched it you know but you don't
get to dick in a box
unless
you actually do all of these other skits
i mean it was one of the funniest in my
opinion i know people think but it was
one of the funniest skits back in the
day it was hilarious and i remember
watching that thing
so many times and going like this is
genius remember justin timberlake and it
was just like this whole thing again in
today's culture in 2019 culture that
would get ripped apart i'm talking about
in that particular moment in time i
thought it was funny
you don't get to some of their most
hilarious skits unless you produce a lot
of work so coming back to your point in
terms of high standards you can have
really high standards for things
but you have to allow yourself to do a
lot of volume and make mistakes so an
example was in the fall we went out and
did some things on the road that it was
a new thing and we're not using any of
the footage because it wasn't very good
i'm not crying in my cereal over that
that's like part of the game so i think
it's very possible to have high
standards which is different than
perfectionism
and allow yourself the grace and the
space to play and experiment and fall on
your face or not use stuff i want to
talk about that i want to talk about
your persona your self
professed persona as the turtle so oh
yeah what what does it mean to be the
turtle what do you mean by things at
volume i think that those are really
really important so i mean starting in
the online world you know 1999 2000 when
my business started um i go slow so for
the first seven years of my business i
had side gigs and a lot of that was by
choice so in addition to my coaching
business that was small and starting
with one-on-one clients i was also
starting to teach dance and fitness i
had this whole simultaneous career
doing fitness dvds and workout dvds and
becoming a nike elite dance athlete
working for mtv choreographing doing all
this stuff i was also bartending waiting
tables
my focus was intentionally split as the
multi-passion entrepreneur because i
wanted to do all these things so i
understood
if my focus was on one thing i would
probably go faster farther right i would
speed up if my focus is diffused amongst
different things i'm probably going to
earn less money and go a lot slower but
for me there is more joy and
satisfaction there because that's what i
wanted to do i wanted to have my hand in
all of these pots so i'm always focused
on the long game i think these days a
lot of people want insta results they
want to be instagram famous they want to
have like a billion dollar business
overnight and if you're just starting
out you've never run a business you've
never created content you've never sold
marketed built a team done any of these
things before to expect instant results
it's immature it's unrealistic you're
never going to get there and some of the
people i admire most in the world no
matter what their craft is dude they're
in it for the [__] long game
they're not sitting around going like
you know why can't i get higher
conversions by tomorrow it's like that's
not how this works man and if you're
looking for that type of
result it's just like i'm not interested
in hanging with those kind of people i
think we get better over time i think
you have to really be patient i think
people have to understand especially
when it comes to any so-called like
glamorous type career or people
maybe things that people perceive are
glamorous whether it's something like
what you and i do an athlete an
entertainer do you know what 90 of the
work is [__] grunt work
that's what it is it's unglamorous
sometimes people like i want to see what
you do more i'm like you want to see
what i do more i'm sitting with a
[__] messy bun in my sweatpants
sometimes not showering for three
goddamn days because i'm hammering [__]
out that's what i do i love it but if
you're not willing to put in that kind
of work you're not gonna get the
outcomes on the other side
yeah
sorry did this get too rough real fast
no man no all right good
no that really was amazing and and a big
part of my beef with upstart
entrepreneurs is
is that it's
not realizing that it it's about
building a skill set you know it's about
getting extraordinary at something and
that's one thing that i really resonate
with in your teachings is your
your b school is tactics man it's like
how to for real run a business yes and i
always say i'm like this is not a get
rich quick overnight program this is get
great over time
like that's why
we give people lifetime access because
i'm like look dude you're probably not
going to get through this you know in
the eight weeks you're certainly not
unless this is all you're doing and most
of us don't have that kind of free time
and i had people that have gone through
the program i wanted to make an amend
too um in the opening year like thirty
thousand people have gone through at
this point it's over forty four thousand
grads yeah it's like a small town
can i tell you something really fast
yeah it's not just like a small town i
ran the numbers at 30 000 because that
was the yeah today i could get bring it
that's 18 years worth of harvard
undergrad graduates
how crazy is that it's like when you
awesome how many people have gone
through your program that's astonishing
thank you well i gotta tell you this
though i didn't set out to do that and
vision is great some people have amazing
huge big grand visions and they love it
and they step into it and they rise up
to that occasion and that's awesome like
if that's you and that's how you're
built and that's what works for you
[__] rock on for many people when
they have an enormous vision it
paralyzes them they have no idea how to
accomplish it i see people crying
workshops all the time it's so big i
don't know how to do it i want to change
the world i'm like don't worry about
changing the world change one person's
life if we can focus there stay there
for a little bit we're gonna get to that
thing maybe otherwise it's all good
because you're still doing the work that
you were born to do but in terms of
b-school
it didn't start out like wanting world
domination it started out
seeing a gap in the market and feeling
heartbroken because
when i was trying to start my business
everything that i saw in the marketplace
lacked the soul it lacked the values it
lacked the integrity it lacked the fun
it lacked the playfulness the design
aesthetic all these things that i
thought would
come together and create a more powerful
learning experience so i was like well
[__] it i'm just going to create it
because i wish i had this when i started
out
another thing that i i would be beyond
remiss not to bring up along this
line of like what beginning
entrepreneurs often struggle with is
indecision and you said what i have
tattooed on my soul which is
indecision is what will kill you yes
indecision is a dream killer and the
opposite what do we do about that it's
probably one of the things i live my
life by most besides the idea that
everything is figureoutable is that
clarity comes from yes
yes we'll talk about that that clarity
comes from engagement not thought so
one of the things that got me off my ass
right when i was thinking about should i
be a dancer could i be a dancer am i too
old to be a dancer oh i think i am was
just getting into that freaking dance
class that's what cracked me open to a
whole additional career that by the way
built the skill sets to what i do today
so my little kind of offshoot my weird
dancing thing got me experience in front
of the camera teaching to big groups
leading music all the stuff that we've
talked about in this entire interview
built this incredible skill set that now
fuels the brand that i have today that's
completely unique that would have been
[__] if i just stayed narrow and focused
on life coaching i would have been you
know that girl with like an awful pink
suit and shoulder pads
terrible
so one thing that i really want to know
your opinion about is the woman who's in
that indecision of whether she should be
an anthropologist or an astronaut
you had her do the deathbed question and
it really centered around
what are you going to regret more what
you do or what you don't do yes and what
do you think is true about humans in
that situation i think that we honestly
don't think about our own mortality
enough i think death is one of those
taboo kind of topics in our culture and
we don't really face it we don't think
about it we don't talk about it enough
we don't imagine ourselves dying enough
we don't really just dive in
and one of the weird little tricks that
i use on myself especially when i'm just
being horrible in my own relationship or
i'm being not the person i know i'm
capable of being i'm having a temper
tantrum i'm stressed i'm just being an
ass whatever it is i've used this in my
relationship with josh where i will
literally fast forward to the point
where like i imagine him laying in a
coffin and me going why were you such an
[__] why didn't you take that time
why did you let that fight go on for
four hours or a day or whatever it is or
in those moments where i feel myself
tightening up or shutting down or
withholding love i try and check myself
before i wreck myself i go there's going
to come a day
where you're going to flash back on this
moment and wished that you just gave him
a hug
or wish that you went in and said i love
you
it's coming
for all of us
so if you can remember that
now
you change everything yeah i think
that's
super powerful and as you were saying
that it's like
i really
like
think about what it would be like if
lisa were
in when they die when someone that you
care dies about
the way that you are bereft that like i
don't think about it in a detached sort
of clinical way i think about it into
like the way that someone [__] throws
themselves on a coffin yes and the the
the sense of like hopelessness of never
being able to get those moments back
that's right and that yeah that like
just [__] devastating sense of loss
it's pretty crazy how fast that'll snap
you out of some [__] oh it will snap
you out of some [__] and it will
stop you from being in a temper tantrum
and you can use that same notion again
some people might say this is incredibly
morbid i say it's incredibly inspiring i
say if you can use it to wake yourself
up out of that slumber of staying in
your temper tantrum or being pissed at
your parents or pissed at your friends
or pissed at someone who again if you
can see them as an innocent doing the
best that they possibly could with
whatever tools and understanding and
beliefs and thoughts they had in that
moment you can find a way to transcend
to reconnect to your heart and to be
that love that you really are
you say that we don't talk enough about
death let's talk about death like
you and me right now yeah um because i
realize that i think about death and i
think about it like i was just saying
with lisa and that's probably the most
potently i ever think about it is jesus
christ like what would this really be
like yes um
you and i both decided not to have kids
yeah which is a
pretty still weird decision for most
people in terms of the feedback that i
get and i don't have any sense of what
you think or feel about the long-term
consequence of that
for me i'm very aware so i think of life
as being in phases and to me it doesn't
make sense to make a decision based on
one phase when you're going to live say
the majority of your life in a totally
different phase
so i know
deathbed moment
i it's a different phase i will have a
different frame of reference i will
value different things in that moment
and in that moment i will regret not
having children that's very clear to me
because i will want to be surrounded by
those that i love but as the youngest in
my family
odds are that i will be the last to go
um
so
i know in that moment i will regret it
but right now i don't and right now i
would regret having children now
and i think that that the sort of
vibrant phase of my life where i want to
create and have impact and all of that
is is something much longer how do you
think about death in that sense in terms
of the decisions you're making in your
life do you think that things will
change for you as you
move through phases i mean talking
specifically about the decision not to
have kids i remember when i did a
marietv on that i was so blown away by
how many women were like thank you for
talking about this
um and i also it was friendly i was like
i was waiting for the comments i was
like i wonder how many people are gonna
say oh but you're gonna regret it or
you're gonna change your mind for me i
actually don't believe i'll regret it at
all
in my own life i've run so much of it by
my gut and by intuition and by listening
to the still small voice within
and as i said on that show that i did it
was never a decision for me i didn't
weigh my options i wasn't torn it was
clear
this meaning
who i am right now is my path
should some point happen between now and
when i die that i want to have children
in my life there are many many many
different options for me to execute
right there's adoption there's fostering
there's like a million different ways
that it could go should i change my mind
which again i'm very open to so i don't
believe in my case that i'm going to
have any regret
i believe so strongly in how my life has
unfolded and i also have tremendous
faith that it will continue to go
exactly as it's meant to and whenever my
time is up
i feel really good about the ride
how do you think about death in terms of
does is death like a companion with life
choices do you think
is that a
like i'll frame this by saying i don't
find that a particularly
effective frame outside of like being
kind to my wife yeah
but in terms of like my own death i
don't find particularly compelling as a
frame of reference yeah i don't think i
do either um
i feel
as though it's useful to do a gut check
you know if i were to look back and go
ah you know so for example let me take
this into context when it was around
dance for me i actually did a 10-year
frame on that i said in 10 years because
i was 25 at the time in 10 years would i
regret not going for dance right now
while i'm still 25 years old because
there's a difference physically or at
least there can be right in a 25 year
old versus 35 year old just starting to
get into the dance world just you give
yourself just a little bit more of a
hurdle
and my answer came back yes if i'm 35
and i didn't try this right now i would
totally regret it so i find that shorter
time frames for me become a more useful
reference point
yeah i i can definitely get that yeah i
could talk to you forever for real
forever
uh before i ask my last question yes
tell these guys where they can find you
online maybe give them a teaser about
the book sure that would be amazing and
hopefully we'll come back we'll talk
about that
um so
marieforleo.com m-a-r-i-e-f-o-r-l-e-o
and that's true over instagram and
twitter and youtube and facebook um but
the main goods are at marieforleo.com i
think we have like hundreds and hundreds
of free episodes in the podcast and as
long as you like humor and you don't
want a little jersey straight talk it's
good good stuff and then in terms of the
book the title is everything is
figureoutable how one simple belief can
help you change your life in the world
and it comes out september 10th of this
year amazing i cannot wait to read that
me too i'm so excited to see it all done
that's incredible all right so my last
question what's the impact that you want
to have on the world
i've always had this belief since i was
little that every single one of us is
born with a unique set of gifts and
talents that only we can give the world
so
the impact that i want to have is i
believe
our world will transform significantly
when every single one of us realizes
that the world really does need the
special gift that only we have so to see
people wake up to that to know that it's
already in them they don't have to do
anything or be anyone different to just
express that i think we go a long way i
absolutely love that all right guys look
i'm gonna put my most aggressive
two-handed stamp of approval on this
woman everything she does is absolutely
extraordinary you will be
mesmerized you'll be blown away
everything she teaches is real it will
actually make your life better if you
follow her advice which is just the the
most important thing i could say about
anybody
her content is hilarious it really is
full of wisdom it's full of executable
advice her q and a's are legendary in my
opinion that you really get to follow
somebody they're done live so she's on
the phone with them and she's walking
them through she's chasing them down uh
it's it's really really moving and i
think that you will see yourself in that
and i think that you will be able to
gain a lot of advice from that i highly
recommend that you guys go to her
website which is a it's gorgeous b it's
full of incredible information it's in a
portal into her whole world
of content the b-school i have not taken
it full disclosure but the people that
have
rave about it and the number of people
that have gone through i think speaks
for itself
so i would really if you're thinking of
starting a business i can't point you in
any better direction i would definitely
definitely check that out all right if
you guys haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary take care
[Applause]
everybody thank you so much for watching
and being a part of this community if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
you're going to get weekly videos on
building a growth mindset cultivating
grit and unlocking your full potential
you